- Why is good financial planning necessary?
- Many people who invest their money are under the impression that all they need to do to ensure their financial well-being is put away some cash, despite the fact that proper financial planning is essential to their success. But putting money aside is not sufficient. Let us assume that the typical lifespan is somewhere between 75 and 80 years. Your parents will see to it that all of your requirements are met over the first 20–25 years of your existence. During the course of your working life, which will typically last about 35 years, you will have to provide for the needs of your family (such as your spouse, children, and dependent parents, among other members of the family), as well as save enough money to provide for your own needs during the 15 to 20 years that you will spend in retirement.
- Because inflation has a long-term effect of lowering the buying power of money, it is essential that your savings increase at a pace that is higher than the rate of inflation if you want to be successful in reaching your financial objectives. The rate of inflation for some costs, such as education and medical care, is significantly higher than the rate of inflation measured by the CPI. You will need to make preparations for it. Additionally, when people's salaries improve, their lifestyles do as well, which results in an increase in spending. After being accustomed to a certain way of life, it is not simple to make a shift to that way of life. If you want to reach your goal of being financially independent while still being able to maintain your current standard of living, you will need significantly more money. In light of these challenges, you should be aware of the significance of engaging in financial planning; you should also be aware of how much money you should save and invest; you should be aware of where you should invest your money; and, most importantly, you should initiate the process of saving money and investing it at an early stage in your working life if you wish to fulfill all of your aspirations.